## Status

`ext4-rs` can extract the basic `stat` information, directory listings, and file content
  from real images generated by other tools, and by the Linux kernel.

(Basic) `MBR` partitions are supported, so disc images (`.img`, `.raw`) can be
  directly read in some cases.

All basic file types are represented: files, directories, symlinks, char and block devices,
  fifos and sockets. Hard links are not a type of thing that makes sense: the item is just in
  multiple directories.


### Practical problems

 * No support for the `64-bit` flag, so can't read real modern filesystems.
 * No support for checksums, so might read total nonsense as a valid volume.
 * No support for extended flags (e.g. `immutable`, `append-only`), or xattrs (e.g. ACLs).
 * Probably contains overflows and fencepost errors, many of which Rust will translate to
     panics for you. At least, in debug mode.


### Non-goals

This is not a filesystem driver. It does not support efficiently modifying real filesystems.
  Currently, it doesn't support modifying anything at all, but that may change.

I'm not especially interested in resource-constrained platforms: memory and IO are not used
  efficiently.



## Development


### Tests

Some of the tests read generated image files. These images are not directly checked into git.

Before running any tests (with `cargo test`), please run `./extract-test-data`.
  This will extract some *apparently* large files.

These test assets can be rebuilt (on Linux, with root) by running `make`
  in `scripts/generate-images`.


### License note

The code is licensed under the super-permissive MIT license.

However, a number of struct and bitfield definitions, and some maths expressions,
  are lifted directly from the Linux, or e2fsprogs, source code. These code-bases are
  under the GPLv2. I believe this to be fair use: these places *are* the documentation,
  and only interface definitions have been extracted, no code. I leave the final decision
  to you.


## Thanks

This would have been practically impossible without the work a `Djwong` has done on
  the [ext4 disk layout](https://ext4.wiki.kernel.org/index.php/Ext4_Disk_Layout) page on
  the kernel wiki. I believe this person is [Darrick Wong](https://djwong.org/). Thanks, man.
